<WRAP = 610><FONTNAME = arial16.dds><FONTSIZE = 16><COLOR = 255,255,255,255> Socialists believe in a society where property and wealth are distributed in line with the needs of the community, as opposed to being distributed as rewards to those who create that wealth or property. Socialism's roots can be traced to the 19th century German philosopher Karl Marx, who together with Frederick Engels  wrote 'the communist manifesto' in 1848.<BR>
Marx saw all history as the history of 'class struggle'.He identified two classes, basically by dividing people into those who owned or controlled the 'means of production' (Bourgeoisie) and those who did not (Proletariat). Marx defined capitalism as a system where the means of production were controlled by the Bourgeoisie, and socialism as a system where it was controlled by the peoples representatives. In pure communism, the people directly controlled the means of production themselves, although in practice, aside from primitive tribal societies (or a theoretical nanotech future with zero costs of production) such a system is considered unworkable. The basic tenet of Marxism was "From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs!", envisaging a society where all those able to work would do so, and those unable to work would be provided for by the rest of society.
<BR>
In it's most extreme form, known as communism, socialism refers to the state ownership of all industry and a centrally-planned economy, where market forces are none existent and factories are given production quotas to fill. In it's less extreme form, socialism advocates state ownership or 'nationalization' of key industries such as energy production, transportation, housing, and utilities such as water supply.<BR>

Socialist political parties in the west often have their roots in the trade-union movements of their respective countries. In most western countries, socialism exists now in a less extreme form than the Marxism favored by the former soviet union. Socialist parties tend to be concerned more with the plight of the poor and workers rights within a capitalist system, as opposed to aiming for the overthrow of capitalism and its replacement with a planned economy. Socialists campaign for better wages for working people (often through unions), higher levels of state benefits for those without work, or incapable of work, and they also fight against what they see as abuse of power by large corporations. <BR>
A (very brief)History of socialism:
1848	Publication of the Communist Manifesto.
1864	Founding of the 'International Working Mens Association' or 'First International'
1869 	Social Democratic Workers' Party of Germany is founded.
1878	Socialist Labor Party of America  founded
1917	October Revolution in Russia. Lenin calls for a world socialist revolution
1924	First Labour (socialist) government elected in the UK, under James Ramsay MacDonald..
1949-1954	House 'Un-American Activities' Committee in the US investigates US communists.
1995	British Labour party abandons 'Clause IV' of it's constitution.
